# How 88mph works

## High level overview

What exactly happens when you, say, deposit 100 DAI into 88mph for 1 year?

1. Your 100 DAI is transferred to 88mph.
2. 88mph returns part of the 100 DAI back to your wallet as the "upfront interest" (let's say 10 DAI).
3. 88mph takes the remaining 90 DAI and lends it out on a lending protocol with variable interest rate (e.g. Compound), which will generate interest for the 1 year deposit period.
4. Once the 1 year is over, you withdraw 100 DAI from 88mph.

At first glance, this may seem extremely problematic. To begin with, how is this different from simply juggling your own money around? Why would it need to be its own protocol? Secondly, if Compound failed to generate 10 DAI of interest from the 90 DAI lent to it in 1 year, you can't guarantee that you can withdraw 100 DAI from 88mph.

These objections are resolved by 88mph through pooling the deposits together. Pooling deposits means putting the deposited DAI into a single pool, from which users can withdraw a deposit once its deposit period is over.

How would pooling help?

- **Risk balancing**: If Compound's interest rate rose after a deposit, the interest generated by the funds lent to Compound could be more than the upfront interest given to the user. This surplus would be able to balance out the deficit caused by deposits where the interest rate has dropped since deposit. This way, risk of insolvency is reduced for the users, and the stability of 88mph's interest rate is supported.
- **Overlapping deposit periods**: If an older deposit could not generate enought interest to cover the deficit caused by the upfront interest payment to the depositor, and its deposit period will be over soon, a newer deposit could temporarily solve the issue, since the funds of the newer deposit can cover the deficit when the old depositor withdraws. This alone obviously does not solve the deficit, since it would essentially be a Ponzi scheme, but combined with risk balancing and the volatility in Compound's interest rate it definitely helps with keeping the 88mph pool solvent.

In addition to pooling, 88mph also algorithmically determine the offered upfront interest rate, such that the part of the deposit that is lent to Compound is expected to generate enough interest to cover the upfront interest paid to the user. This will be further discussed in [Technical details](#technical-details).

### Deficit funding & Interest rate leverage-longing

Simply doing the above, though, would make 88mph a fairly risky product: if the interest rate on Compound and Aave drop to a very low value and stay there for a long time, deposits made when the interest rate was still high would not by themselves generate enough interest to cover the original upfront interest payouts, and neither would the deposits made after the rates dropped help with this situation. This would cause a pool-wide insolvency event, which is obviously bad.

This is why 88mph also offers another mechanic called **Deficit funding**. Deficit funding allows someone to immediately fill up the deficit of one or more deposits using their own money, and in exchange they would receive the interest generated by those deposits. Given that each 88mph deposit would generate enough interest to cover its own deficit as long as the average interest rate during the deposit period stays above 75% of the initial value (see [Technical details](#technical-details)), a deficit funder would earn a profit as long as the interest rate doesn't drop by more than 25%.

Not only does deficit funding significantly reduces the risk of depositing into 88mph, it also provides a brand new financial product that allows users to **long the interest rates of Compound and Aave**. It's similar to some other products that allows people to long and short interest rates ([LSDai](https://lsdai.market/)), except 88mph's deficit funding provides a profit even if the interest rate drops (as long as it doesn't drop by more than 25%), and provides even more profits if the interst rate rises. It's like leverage-longing the interest rate!

### Interoperability through Non-fungible tokens (NFTs)

88mph represents deposits and deficit fundings using ERC-721 standard non-fungible tokens. This means that users can transfer them between accounts, buy or sell them on exchanges, put wrappers around them to add more features, and more! The limit is your imagination.

Some possible use cases:
- Deposited a lot of money into 88mph, but suddenly need cash? And you still want your deposit to generate profit? Well, you can take out a loan on lending platforms like [RocketNFT](https://medium.com/@AlexMasmej/introducing-rocket-get-a-loan-against-your-nfts-f67b1b5738f0) using your deposit NFT as collateral, and pay it back once you withdraw your deposit. Magic!
- You can wrap the deficit funding NFT with an ERC20-like semi-fungible token to fund deposits fractionally.

## Technical details

This section will detail how 88mph determines the upfront interest rate offered to the user.

Suppose that for a certain deposit, the deposit period is \(t\) seconds, the Compound interest rate at the time of deposit is \(r_0\) per second, the deposit amount is \(D\), and the offered upfront interest is \(\gamma D\). Also suppose that the amount of interest earned from Compound is linear with regards to time (non-compounding interest).

Furthermore, let's suppose that we predict the average interest rate offered by Compound during the deposit period is \(mr_0\), where \(m \gt 0\). Then, the condition for the interest earned from Compound to be at least as much as the upfront interest given to the user is:

$$\gamma D \le (1 - \gamma) D m r_0 t$$

which simplifies to:

$$\gamma \le \frac{m r_0 t}{1 + m r_0 t}$$

Suppose we choose \(\gamma = \frac{m r_0 t}{1 + m r_0 t}\) to be the (non-annualized) upfront interest rate. This means that the amount that's lent to Compound will be just enough to cover the upfront interest. If the average Compound interest rate actually turns out to be greater than \(m r_0\), then the deposit will provide a surplus; otherwise it will be in deficit. Therefore, \(m r_0\) is the minimum average Compound interest rate during the deposit period such that won't cause a deficit.

It should be clear that \(m\) acts as a parameter that we can adjust to represent how optimistic/pessimistic we are about the future Compound interest rate, as well as how risky the pool is. If \(m > 1\), you would be optimistic about future Compound interest rates; if \(m < 1\), you would be pessimistic; if \(m = 1\), you would be neutral. At 88mph, we have selected \(m = \frac 3 4\), meaning that an individual deposit won't have a deficit as long as the average money market interest rate during the deposit period will be at least \(\frac 3 4\) of the current rate.

What about compound interest, which is what Compound & Aave offer? Since earning compound interest rather than non-compound interest just means that the pool will earn more interest, it just makes 88mph more secure against the risk of deficit.

To summarize, the upfront interest offered by 88mph for a deposit of \(D\) DAI for \(t\) seconds is

$$upfrontInterest = \frac{\frac 3 4 r_0 t}{1 + \frac 3 4 r_0 t} D$$